# Outside-Portfolio

Outside Portfolio Documentation - Laura K. Alford
By Kira Mintzer, Rea Parocaran, &
Katherine Mustelier


Initial Observations
When we began to consider rebuilding Laura K. Alford’s portfolio page, we found three main challenges that we felt we’d have to address to improve the page’s usability. The first was the amount of content that was difficult to read and go through, as it was confusingly organized and distributed. The second issue was that there was a lot of information that is subject to change, such as her Research Openings and Current Courses sections. While this wouldn’t normally be a problem, this information was mixed in with more static information, making it difficult to make solid stylistic decisions. Finally, we felt that Laura’s page was uninteresting to look at and, more importantly, styled very inconsistently. Some pages had capitalized headings while others had little capitalization at all. While this may have been an attempt to show a more casual, laid back attitude though stylization, we felt that this could be better accomplished using colors, and that using all lowercase letters was a poor and inconsistent way to communicate this.

Addressing Concerns
To address these concerns, our team started by simplifying Laura’s sitemap to a cleaner looking top navigation bar. By combining the Teaching page with the ENGR 100 class description page and giving the Tandem page its own section, we made the navigation bar far more attractive to look at and easy to follow, stripping unnecessary information from the navigation system. To address the issues of having too much content on pages and organizing content that is subject to change, we added accordions to store this content. We achieved this using JavaScript. This allowed us to create space for Laura to add and subtract content as it changes and as she sees fit without interfering with the layout of the static content on the pages. Finally, we reworked the overall style to make the content more consistently stylized across all pages and more attractive to look at in general. Now both proper capitalization and color scheme are consistent across all of the pages in the site.


Building Responsive Designs
The website is responsive to three screen views: mobile, tablet, and desktop. We designed it with a mobile first approach which is why we have created two media queries that respond to changes in screen size: one for the desktop and one for the tablet view. The tablet media query is triggered when the screen width is at 750px and the desktop media query is triggered when the screen width is 1100px. We chose to make the tablet media query slightly larger instead of the standard 600px size so that the navbar menu links would not spill out of the top navigation box.  

Flexbox: In order to make content in the navigation bar readable on each viewing mode of the site (tablet, desktop or phone), we used flexbox as it is highly responsive to such changes. For the mobile view, we stacked the links vertically on top of each other to make it easy to click on each link. We also made stylistic changes between the desktop and tablet views to show variability.

Grid: On our About, Teaching, Research, and Tandem pages, we used grid to help us organize content. We created 3 different grids for each of our 3 viewing modes. For desktop, our grid was divided into 3 sections (1fr 1fr 1fr), for tablet it was divided into 2 sections (1fr 1fr), and for mobile it was all one column (1fr). This allowed us to easily display and organize information to make it more readable. We standardized the look of the pages by putting a block of text alongside corresponding media such pictures and videos to maintain relevance. For certain pages, we maximized variability by changing how content was laid out. For example, on the tandem page, the order of images and paragraphs changes between tablet and desktop mode. This ultimately introduces different styling choices and diversity in presenting the same information.  


Accessibility Challenges
To make our page as accessible as possible, we added a few features to help users who might otherwise struggle with webpage navigation get to the information that they need more easily. For users that might be using screen readers, we added alt text to all of our pictures and aria-labels to our videos. We used aXe, Wave, and W3C validators to verify that these pictures and videos would not be a problem for screen readers. For those who might struggle to scroll through we webpage, we added a skip to content button that users can reach simply by pressing tab and then enter. The top nav bar also can be controlled using only the tab and enter buttons. Finally, we double checked all of our fonts and colors using aXe and Wave to ensure that the contrast would be readable for all users, especially those with low-vision and color blindness.

In addition to our two other media queries mentioned above, we also included a reduced motion media query to accommodate for those with vestibular disorders. On a Mac computer, this media query is triggered when the user goes to computer settings → accessibility → display and turns reduce motion on. When turned on, we reduced the motion of animations associated with skip to content. Instead of it gradually appearing, when reduced motion is on, we ensured that it simply pops up instead. Also, when reduced motion is on and the skip to main content feature is triggered, we removed the scrolling animation to instead jump to the main content. 
